### Problem Statement:

Reddit is a popular social media platform that allows users to post content that other users can interact with by providing feedback and reactions in the form of comments. Some of the content shared within Reddit is more popular than the rest based on the number of comments it receives.

[Foundation](https://foundationinc.co/lab/reddit-research/), a content marketing firm, states in a report that Reddit has over 300 million monthly active users, serving as a fertile ground for promoting content in the form of threads and advertisements. From a marketing perspective, it is important to understand what characteristics of a Reddit post can serve as distinguishing factors based on the number of interactions a post generates as measured by the number of comments it receives.

This research project will determine **what characteristics of a post on Reddit are most predictive of the overall interaction on a thread as measured by the number of comments**. Identifying these characteristics will allow product marketers, social media influencers, and other stakeholders customize Reddit posts to maximize the amount of interaction generated by their content in this platform. In particular, it is expected that more visibility of content will result in higher brand-awareness and greater revenue opportunities for a variety of companies wanting to promote their products or information on Reddit.

In particular, the Chief Content Officer at FiveThirtyEight is the primary audience for this project. By analyzing over 10,000 posts collected from the [Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/) webpage of most popular threads, a natural language processing model will be developed to identify which characteristics and posts of a Reddit post are most predictive of high interaction with a post. This information will be used by FiveThirtyEight's marketing team in customizing threads and content on this platform to maximize the level of engagement with the content. A higher level of engagement is expected to result in greater use of FiveThirtyEight's content and greater monetary opportunities through advertisement contracts.

The text data from Reddit posts will be vectorized using several methods such as [term frequency–inverse document frequency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf%E2%80%93idf) and used to predict whether a post contains a number of posts that is above the median number of posts. Additional derived features from the posts will be used in the prediction. A random forest, K-nearest neighbor, and decision tree classification models will be used to evaluate the accuracy of the predicted classification. The best model selected will be the one that will produce the highest accuracy and precision scores. All models' results will be compared to the null model or the percentage of posts with a number of comments above the median.

### Data Collection:
* Using web-scraping and Selenium, over 10,000 Reddit threads were collected in December, 2021 and early January 2022
* The following features were collected from Reddit posts: Thread title, time since it was posted, subreddit, whether the post contained a video, whether the post contained an image, and the number of comments

### (Running this project):
Because the data were collected through web scraping during December 2021, please execute the following notebooks and do **not** execute the /web-scrapping-and-data-collection.ipynb notebook. This notebook was used to collect the data particular to this project. Hence, the project findings are specific to the dataset already collected and stored [here](https://reddit-posts-webscraping.s3.amazonaws.com/web_scrapping_results.csv). The remaining notebooks use the data already collected:
* text-data-exploratory-data-analysis.ipynb
* nlp-modeling.ipynb 

### Exploratory Data Analysis

Several features were considered to predict whether a post had a high level of engagement, including:

* Thread length
* Percentage of characters that are upper case
* Whether a post was framed as a question
* Thread polarity
* Thread subjectivity
* Number of emojis in the threads
* Count of posts per subreddit
* Number of punctuation signs used
* The amount of time since the thread was posted
* Whether the thread contained a video or image
* Whether the thread was posted on a holiday

The features that had a stronger association with the classification of a post having a higher number of comments were:
* Whether the post was framed as a question
* Whether the post was posted during a holiday
* The length of time since the post was added to Reddit

Along with these features and tokens derived from a count vectorizer and Tfidf vectorizer, decision tree, bagging, random forest, extra tress, and k-nearest neighbor models were
run to predict whether a thread received a number of comments that was above the median. The best model chosen was the model with the highest accuracy and precision scores.
In this analysis, the best model was the random forest model.

|Model | Accuracy |Precision Score|
|:---|:---|:---|
|Decision Tree | 0.64 ± 0.014 |0.624 |
|Bagging Classifier |0.69 ± 0.016 |0.723 |
|**Random Forest** | **0.72 ± 0.018** |0.736 |
|Extra Trees Classifier | 0.7 ± 0.017 |0.708 |
|K-nearest neighbor | 0.66 ± 0.0077 |0.605 |

### Results
* A longer amount of time since a thread was posted increases the odds of a post having a number of comments above the median
* Posts that are framed as questions are 1.3 times more likely to have a number of comments above the median than posts that do are not posed as a question
* Posts that were posted during a holiday were 1.2 times more likely to have a number of comments above the median than posts that were not posted during a holiday
* Threads that had the following characteristics tended to be classified as having a number of comments above the median:
    * For threads that had a question in their title
    * And, had been posted for more than 12 hours, and had a low degree subjectivity and polarity, around 200 (2% of 10,000 threads) of them were classified as having a number of comments above the median

### Conclusions
* From a marketing perspective, Reddit is a community of individuals who can serve as a testing ground for `wh-` type questions related to a product. For instance, what features would a user like to see in a product, what price would redditors be willing to pay for a product, and more. The marketing office at `FiveThirtyEight` specifically can use Reddit to ask what social issues are of greater concern or importance within the Reddit community to plan for what content to work on in the future.
* In addition, posts that have been up on Reddit for less than 12 hours are classified as having a number of comments above the median in a sub-sample of the data. A longer amount of time of content posting on Reddit is expected to result in a higher level of interaction with the content.
* Holidays may be days when redditors have more time to be engaged in social media. Therefore, consider posting content during holidays to increase engagement.
* Further analysis should be done to identify what specific tokens are associated with a post being classified as having a high number of comments
